### Where to start
To start automating your deployment process one has to begin by documenting the current process and then proceed to simplify and automate as many manual processes as they can. Developers pushing to deployment may leverage on tools such as Jenkins to automate the process by ensuring the pipeline meets the following:
1. Deploying the same way to every environment
2. Smoke testing deployments
3. Ensuring we maintain consistency within the different environments.
### Empowering development teams
Find a way to have developers able to make releases automatically without involving release managers. This is done by ensuring the following:
1. Build: Deployment pipelines must create packages from version control that can be used in any environment.
2. Test: Anyone can run any or all tests on their workstation.
3. Deploy: Anyone can deploy to any environment as long as they have access.
Replicate yout testing pipeline to productionto support fast deployments and a quick way to verify if deployment was successful.
### Releases and deployments
Decouple releases from deployments to allow features to be tested in production before releases are made known to public. This prevents cases of firefighting in cases of things going wrong.
### Release patterns
There are two main ways in which releases can be done:
#### Environment-based release patterns
This can be achieved by either having the blue-green deployment patterns or canary releases. The blue-green deployment pattern involves having a replica of your application all running in production and categorizing them as red or blue. At any time, there is only one category being used. This makes it possible for an functionality to be deployed on one category and perform further tests when this is successful, it can be replicated to the other category.
Canary releases is done by having multiple environments and your changes are slowly transitioned through these environments before being made available to all users. This allows teams to continously monitor and test their changes in production before fully advancing it or rolling back if things go wrong.
[Canary releases at Facebook? (or meta)](https://engineering.fb.com/2017/08/31/web/rapid-release-at-massive-scale/)
#### Application-based release pattterns
This involves releasing features in production but using conditional checks to make them available to customers. This makes it possible to toggle changes in a prpoduction application making it possible to easily roll back, gracefully degrade performance and perform A/B testing. 
[A read on feature flags/ toggles](https://launchdarkly.com/guides/feature-flags-for-beginners/what-are-feature-flags/#:~:text=A%20feature%20flag%20is%20a,full%20lifecycle%20of%20a%20feature.)
