### Where did Nordstrom start
[Nordstrom](https://www.nordstrom.com/) started implementing DevOps as a way of reducing their lead time and an observation that they needed to evolve so as to provide maximum value to their customers. The first step in their transformation journey was to look at their value streams. Their product of choice to begin with was the customer facing application. 
This became successful as they first created an independent team, made the application independent so as to quickly iterate their application. They made planning a regular affair and not an annual affair so as to prioritize work based on what the customer needs during different times in the year.
### Greenfield vs Brownfield projects
[What are greenfield and brownfield projects](https://www.investopedia.com/ask/answers/043015/what-difference-between-green-field-and-brown-field-investment.asp)
Greenfield projects are easy to implement DevOps as a way of work as technical debt is not there and gives teams a clean slate to do things right. Brownfield projects present a bigger challenge owing to technical debt that may be present. Brownfield projects however prove to be more successful to implement DevOps because of the inefficiencies the affected teams may be experiencing.
### Systems of record vs systems of engagement
Define systems of record from systems of engagement, work to make these systems independent from each other so as to make transition easier.
### Implementing DevOps with small teams
Start implementing teams with teams who are not risk-averse as they will prove to have less resistance and bigger probability of success.
### Scaling DevOps across an organization
This can be achieved with the below steps:
1. Finding innovators and early adopters: These teams are more progressive and will easily adopt to new practices. This team can be used as proof of concept/ success story that can be replicated.
2. Building critical mass and silent majority: If step one works you need to convince other teams that it is possible to achieve transformation within a value stream, once benefits are visible the next step can be activated.
3. Identify people who are likely to resist: Now that we have the majority, you will be able to bypass the political fights and resistance from both low and high level individuals in the organization since you have success stories. You also have leverage to ask for support that you could not get before such as financial support.