### What is Conway's Law?
> Organizations which design systems are constrained to produce systems which are copies of the communication structures of these organizations. 


The bigger the organization the less flexible the system and the more pronounced the phenomenon.
### Organizational archetypes
Different organizations tend to have either of the three ways are the underlying structure. They include the following:
#### 1. Functional-oriented organizations
These organizations are optimized for expertise, prefer specialists over generalists, the best part of this is they are pro- career growth and have tall hierarchical structures. These tall structures leads to high levels of bureaucracy and team members (most of the time) do not understand why they do what they are doing leading to high lead times.
#### 2. Market-oriented organizations
Presence of multi-faceted teams that are optimized to quickly respond to marketing needs, has redundancies. These type of organizations are the ones adopting DevOps and is easier to implement DevOps. This is because teams are decentralized and they work on small things that generally contribute to fast market growth.
#### 3. Matrix-oriented organizations
This is a combination of functional and market-oriented organizations. These organizations try to get the best of both worlds but rarely achieve their goals.
### The two pizza team
[Read about the Amazon Two pizza team here](https://aws.amazon.com/executive-insights/content/amazon-two-pizza-team/).
Follow the Amazon two pizza rule to ensure the following:
1. Ensure that teams has a clear and shared understanding of your systems.
2. Limit growth rate of the product being worked on.
3. Decentralizes power and decision making giving teams autonomy over the growth and evolution of a product.
4. A way of employees to gain leadership experience.
### Project vs Products/ services
Funding projects sounds good on paper until teams are not able to see the consequences of the decisions they made due to funding running out or projects coming to an "end". Funding products or/ and services values the achievement of organizational and customer outcomes vis-à-vis a project which outcomes may be measured by whether it was completed within budget, time and scope.
### Designing teams with Conway's Law
With the advent of teams working from different geographical locations, it is important to ensure that collaboration is prioritized. It is recommended to have teams with people from different specialties to avoid cases of rework, disagreements over specifications, poor hand-offs and people sitting idle waiting for somebody else. The software architecture should be a key enabler for this so as to ensure teams are independently productive and sufficiently decoupled from each other.
### Loosely coupled architectures
[See Stanley Masinde's post on microservices](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/stanley-masinde_microservices-are-not-about-scaling-systems-activity-7364612623394390016-FmPH/)
Products should be developed in a way that they are loosely coupled to ensure that developers are able to make changes without thinking about how other parts of the systems work. The best way to implement is to start with modular code-bases then proceed to [Service Oriented Architecture (SOA)](https://aws.amazon.com/what-is/service-oriented-architecture/).
