#### Installing gcloud
To install gcloud on your Linux machine, you can run the following
`sudo apt install gcloud`
#### Initializing gcloud
Once gcloud is installed you should initialise it by typing the following command
`gcloud init`
This will redirect you to a page on your broswer prompting you to login and enter your details which will authenticate your google cloud cli instance. Once you are logged in you can select a project to work on and set a compute region. 
#### View your configs
To view you configs on gcloud cli you should enter the following 
`gcloud config list`, for first timers you shouldn't get so much information apart from what is considered to be core information.

```sh
[core]
account = <email_address>
disable_usage_reporting = True
project = <project_name_redacted>
```
#### Set compute region
Once we have our core config setup, we can then proceed to configure our compute region where our instances will be provisioned from. This can be accomplished by entering the following
`gcloud config set compute/region <region_name>`, to see available compute regions you should enter the following:
`gcloud compute regions list`
#### Set compute zones
To set compute zones, we need to enter the following command
`gcloud config set compute/zone <zone_name>`. To select zone you can run the following command `gcloud compute zones list`. We can now check on our configs by typing `gcloud config list`. We are going to get the following result:
```sh
[compute]
region = europe-west1
zone = europe-west1-c
[core]
account = <email_address>
disable_usage_reporting = True
project = <project_name_redacted>

Your active configuration is: [default]
```
#### Switching from one project to another
To see what projects we are in we can check that using `gcloud projects list`. This will return a list of all projects that we have permission to access. To navigate from one project to another we can enter the following command `gcloud config project <project_name>`, once this command is ran, Google CLI checks whether the the user has permission to access that project in the first place. 
#### Switch gcloud users
In cases where one user has more than one account and need to switch their accounts, we need to do the following:
`gcloud auth list`. This comes in handy if you have multiple accounts with different projects. That command brings a list of authenticated accounts. To change the currently active account, we need to do the following command `gcloud config set account <email_address>`
#### Adding a new account
To add a new account we can do the following `gcloud auth login <email_address>`. This redirects you to the the browser and you enter your credentials. 
### Installing components
Components make it easier for us to interact with specific GCP products and offerings. To view components we can enter the following `gcloud components list`. To install components you can do the following command `gcloud components install <component_id>`. 
#### Running components 
To run components you can do the following component:
`gcloud components <component_id>`
