### Metrics for everybody
Creare metrics that can be applied by development and operations teams to understand how a service works as a whole. This can be done by leveraging on open source tools to build modern monitoring architectures that work at scale with the following components:
1. Data collection at business logic, application and environment layers.
2. An event router responsible for dtoring our events and metrics.
This should not be limited to applications but deployment pipelines and should be able to be manually or automatically analyzed. These logs should be captured in different levels to promote prioritization.
### Telemetry-driven decisions
Use telemetry to make decisions in our daily work. Adoption can be made easier to diagnose ares of improvement and problems. This is doen by centralizing access.
### Telemetry at different levels
When setting up telemetry =, it is recommended that you do it at different levels. The levels include:
1. Business level: These are metrics that business leaders would want to know such as number of sign-ups, empty carts, amount transacted in a day etc
2. Application level: These are metrics that can be consumed by product managers and developers such as API response times, transaction times, user response times etc.
3. Infrastructure level: These are metrics that are used on the infra level such as web server traffic, CPU load and disk usage. This is essential to get performance insights.
4. Client software level: This metrics can be collected on interfaces suh as mobile applications. Examples include appliation errors and crashes.
5. Deployment pipeline level: This is collected from our pipelines. Metrics may include number of successful/ failed builds, deployment frequency, environment status, pipeline status.