### Expelling the fear
To remove fear that comes before deployment, we can have metrics set up to check how the application works after deployment. This makes it possible to quickly detect issues. Detected issues can be fixed by leveraging on [feature toggle]([[12. Automate and enable low risk releases#Application-based release pattterns]]), fixing forward or rolling back. It is important to note that without telemetry feature toggles are the least risky but with telemetry fixing forward(writing code to fix the bug) becomes the preferred method since a developer can get real-time feedback on the status of their fixes.
### Feedback from real users
Create an avenue for developers to see how end-users interact with their products or services. This makes it possible for them to see areas where they can improve.
### Developers managing their production services
To reduce friction between operations and development teams, Google deemed it fit for developers to self-manage their applications in production within the early stages in production before being handed over to an SRE team. Developers can be supported in this by consulting with an SRE and running through a checklist that prepares them before going to production and a handover is done when the product is perceived to be stable or reaches certain metrics that have been set up by an organization. When a product becomes problematic, there are also guidelines that define how it should be handed over back to development for patchwork and necessary fixes before it is returned to the SRE teams. This gives development teams feedback on the general performance of their products and more pressure to constantly improve the quality of their product. 