### From different arts to an orchestra
Technology teams are divided into different crafts that the book refers to as value streams which makes sense as to why they call it that. The multiple work streams could include but is not limited to Development, Quality Assurance, Security and IT operations. DevOps is meant to merge this into one stream that I shall call "The Tech factory". This value stream is focused on delivery of customer needs and shipping of the product. This process begins at the moment the developer pushes code to Version Control. The various teams come together at this point to ensure that code that is pushed to version control finds it way to the customer within the shortest time possible.
### Why do functionalities take long to get to customers
One of the many reasons why a product may take too long to get to the customer is because the systems involved may be because of the fact that systems are tightly coupled, built on legacy code and long Turn Around Time (TAT) between teams as a result of the teams working in silos instead of constant collaboration.
This lead time can be reduced by having systems broken down into modular architectures, with the developers having autonomy of their work and ability to initiate deployment at any time. 
[Read on effects of implementing this here]([[I. Introduction#Making the business and the team look good.]])


### Our first metric
Measuring percentage of completion to accuracy of the customer's request can be a good place to start checking whether your approach is good in the long run.

```mathematica
Effective Delivery = Percentage of completion / Accuracy of customer requests
```

### The three ways

#### 1. Increasing speed of delivery between the factory to customers
To achieve this, we first need to be honest with ourselves, how much work do we have? we then proceed to breaking down the tasks to small bits that can be quickly worked on and shipped to the customer. [Read More]([[2. The first way- Principles of flow]])
#### 2. Creation of one feedback loop between the factory and customers
This feedback loop should serve as a learning process and not a way to pass blames or punish team members. The feedback loop is meant to provide a safe haven for learning from mistakes and also get good feedback on how well our products are performing.
#### 3. One production line that reiterates way number 2 infinitely
Creation of a high trust environment that supports experimentation and risk taking which makes it possible for the tech factory and the organization at large to learn from their mistakes and wins which can be achieved by shortening the feedback loops and replaying it across the different stages and forms a product takes.

