In the book [Ikigai: Japanese secret to a long and happy life](https://textbookcentre.com/shop/ikigai-japanese-secret-to-a-long-and-happy/) flow is defined as *A state of total immersion in an activity, where you’re so focused that time seems to disappear, self-consciousness fades, and you’re fully absorbed in what you’re doing.* This chapter very much so ties and resonates to that. 
As stated previously the goal of DevOps is ensure that customers have access to new features or products within a [short time and bug-free.]([[1. Agile, Continous Delivery and the three ways#From different arts to an orchestra]])

Flow can be achieved in the following ways as shown below:
### Make work visible
Like a manufacturing factory, your work in the tech factory should be visible as well. This makes it possible for you to see what you need to do in your tech factory, and break it down into small and attainable batches of work that can be pushed to production almost independently. This can be achieved by use of a Kanban board.
### Limit the number of tasks that can run concurrently
However contradictory this may sound, having so much work to be done in one go may result in little to no work being done at a given time. This is because it becomes difficult to detect blockers and problems that one may have during development. 
### Break down tasks into smaller batches
Break down the number of tasks into smaller batches to ensure that the cycle time is reduced and to be able to spot mistakes during development.
### Reduce number of hand-offs/overs
To ensure speed from Development to Deployment, you need to reduce the number of hands a certain product falls into, remember the lesser the people it takes to make a decision the faster the decision is made. This can be tackled by leveraging on things such as automation if repetitive tasks.
### Find constraints in your factory and work backwards
You can only [connect the dots looking backwards](https://www.youtube.com/shorts/hLF-Pzf4Gy4), focus on looking at bottlenecks on the final phases of your development life-cycle and extra-polate those issues and have them get back to the first phases of your life-cycle. This avoids situations where you have bottle-necks in your value stream.
### Eliminate wastage
In tech, wastage is not physical and the bad thing about this type of wastage is loss of time. Wastage can include and is not limited to the following:
1. Partially done work
2. Extra processes
3. Extra features
4. Task switching
5. Waiting and things being parked
6. Incorrect missing or unclear information
7. Heroics- [Read more on heroics here]([[I. Introduction#Why DevOps is not working]])

*Side note: This reminds me of a certain CEO who decomissioned a project after close to two years and it was meant to be very impactful to the business and spoke to addressing the principles and values of the book. Mr. CEO if you are reading this, I hope this summarized chapters gives you the ability to see things in a different light.*
