Feedback loops are very important during crisis management and makes it possible to arrest issues in your tech factory, to build a proper feedback system, the following needs to be in place
### Make it possible for people to work in complex systems
Since there are no perfect systems and things are going to go wrong at some point, why not empower people with the ability to work with complex systems? This can be achieved by making it possible for people to identify problems, democratizing knowlege and training of leaders to grow problem-solving capabilities.
### Seeing problems as they happen
Implementation of feedback and feed-forward loops makes it possible for teams to anticipate problems. These systems can be be manual interventions and automated interventions. Manual interventions could be things such as monitoring (one could argue that this can also be automated by alarms and rules) and creation of unit tests and other automated tests (SAST, SCA etc).
### Collectively attacking problems
When a problem arises and cannot be fixed within a short time, everybody who has the ability to solve this problem should be called to sort it out. This is because time will be reduced when sorting out this problem if it is solved when it is reported and will not affect other people in the tech factory. This improves learning amongst team members and reduces time taken for a feature to be completed.
[Read about the Andon cord to better understand where this came from](https://taylorpearson.me/interestingtimes/andon-cord/) 
### Quality = source of the solution
Avoid reliance on executives to solve problems. Executives hired you to solve their problems, it would be nice if you informed them of what you have done or when you are completely stuck. This increases your knowledge  and improves your output in the long-run.
### Make it possible for the next person to do their work
In the tech factory, optimize what you do to an extent where the work of the next person becomes easier since they just need to plug in to your work.