We are going to cover authentication into vault
#### Token authentication
We will now create our first token using `vault token create`
We get the following output
```
Key                  Value
---                  -----
token                hvs.ulLv0WRKEZWs4IHIbMaojvH4
token_accessor       ev0nwFXbYTOOUuyLsyYKdLpt
token_duration       ∞
token_renewable      false
token_policies       ["root"]
identity_policies    []
policies             ["root"]

```
We can see we got `hvs.ulLv0WRKEZWs4IHIbMaojvH4` as the token.

We can now try to login using our vault token using `vault login`, you can see we are now prompted to put our token to login after that we get the following:
```
Success! You are now authenticated. The token information displayed below
is already stored in the token helper. You do NOT need to run "vault login"
again. Future Vault requests will automatically use this token.

Key                  Value
---                  -----
token                hvs.ulLv0WRKEZWs4IHIbMaojvH4
token_accessor       ev0nwFXbYTOOUuyLsyYKdLpt
token_duration       ∞
token_renewable      false
token_policies       ["root"]
identity_policies    []
policies             ["root"]

```
You can go ahead and create a new token.

##### Revoking tokens
We can now try and revoke the token we have created by typing `vault token revoke <token>`. We can now try and revoke the token
`vault token revoke hvs.ulLv0WRKEZWs4IHIbMaojvH4`
We get the following output
`Success! Revoked token (if it existed)`
If we attempt to login with the revoked token we get the following error
```
Error authenticating: error looking up token: Error making API request.

URL: GET http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/auth/token/lookup-self
Code: 403. Errors:

* permission denied
```
It is important to note any token revoked will revoke all tokens created by that token.
#### GitHub authentication
In situations where we need other people to authenticate to Vault we can have them use GitHub. Before we start you need to ensure that you have a GitHub profile, belong to a GitHub organisation, and have a GitHub access token with the read:org scope. 

Let us now enable a GitHub authentication using the command `vault auth enable github`. 

To prevent every Tom, Dick and Harry from authenticating to your system's vault, we need to set up an organisation in the organisation.

We can now set up the organisation using the command `vault write auth/github/config organisation=<your_organisation_name>`
We get the following output
`Success! Data written to: auth/github/config`

We can add privileges to different teams using Vault by using the command 
`vault write auth/github/map/teams/<team_name> value=default,applications`
We get the following output
`Success! Data written to: auth/github/map/teams/mobile`
##### Logging in with GitHub
We need to unset the root token that we set when we started the vault dev server.
`unset VAULT_TOKEN`
We can then proceed to authenticate to vault using GitHub.
`vault login -method=github`
When we log in we can see that the token we have been allocated is valid for 32 days.
###### Creating a personal Access Token
To create a personal access token, you can follow this part of the [GitHub documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token)
##### Revoking GitHub tokens
For us to revoke all GitHub tokens we can login as root using the command below
`vault login root`
We can now comfortably revoke the tokens generated by the github auth method.
`vault token revoke -mode path auth/github`
Then we can proceed to revoke all GitHub tokens
`vault token revoke -mode path auth/github`
