What do we need to ensure that we have a model where every IT person involved in the **successful** roll-out of a product conducted in a way that it feels like you are in an orchestra producing one of the best pieces of music that will be listened to for centuries to come.

DevOps describes that. A scenario where Developers, IT Operations, Quality Assurance, Information Security and Project Management all come together to build and ship products within a short time impressing customers, growing businesses, providing secure experiences and boosting employee satisfaction.

### Why DevOps is not working
1. **Working in silos:** One of the greatest pitfalls of specialization is everyone doing what they need to do and hoping that things will finally come together miraculously at the end. This practice often leads to creation of technical debt which makes decision making and product growth in the long run difficult.
2. **Everybody want to be a hero and corporate politics:** I once heard a sales person promise a customer that the solution they were pitching had a functionality that I knew did not exist. I also heard a Product Manager promise a C-suite executive that a feature will be rolled out to production within a week and development had barely started. I saw an Operations guy (IT) act as a hero during a system outage that may have costed the organization I worked at millions of shillings. This makes DevOps difficult to work since we are all trying to impress somebody without looking at how we can work together. 
### Making the business and the team look good.
Breaking down your large teams into small teams will often lead to increased productivity and faster releases. Faster releases will lead to the ability of failing fast, reduced time to market and more learning opportunities. Teams are able to experiment and innovate more without fear of failure, which in the long run gives the business a competitive edge. A study also shows that this also leads to increased employee satisfaction for organizations that embraced DevOps.