Kubernetes is made up of the following (main) components:
1. Pod 
2. Service
3. Ingress
4. Config map
5. Secret
6. Deployment
7. Stateful set
8. Daemonset

### Pod
This is an abstraction that is placed over a container. This pod is where your docker containers are placed. Think of a web application with a database, the web application runs on one pod and the database runs on another pod and each pod gets their own IP address.
### Service
This is a static IP address, that can be attached to each pod. The service is resposible for the following:
1. Partly as a DNS resolver, as it works together with ingress.
2. Load balancing between one node and another.
#### External service
Makes it possible for one to access the application from the outside, using an IP address (subdomain) etc. 
#### Internal service
Restricts public access to an application.
### Ingress
This is responsible for the translation of the DNS from the subdomain to the IP address which then routes to the DB.
### Configmaps and secrets
#### Configmaps
Responsible for the external configuration to the application. This configurations include connections such as the database name, links and stuff like that.
#### Secrets
Responsible of storing secret information such as DB password and API keys. 
### Volumes
Responsible for persistence of data stored in pods. This could be within or outside the cluster.  Kubernetes is not responsible for data persistence.
### Deployments
This is the blueprint of the pods. This is where replicas are created.
### Statefulset
Used to manage state for stateful applications eg: databases.