### Case 1: Bulletinboard application
Deployment using K8s should be done in a declarative manner. This means that one should write a YAML file that contains all the specifications of our setup and we let K8s figure out how we want our setup to look like.

Here is a sample and yet (arguably) simple deployment example
```yml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: bb-demo
  namespace: default
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      bb: web
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        bb: web
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: bb-site
        image: bulletinboard/bulletinboard:1.0
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: bb-entrypoint
  namespace: default
spec:
  type: NodePort
  selector:
    bb: web
  ports:
  - port: 3000
    targetPort: 3000
    nodePort: 30001
```
Let us breakdown this yml file (major components)
`apiVersion`: This specifies the version of the Kubernetes API.
`kind`: Specifies the group of identical pods.
`replicas`: Specifies how many copies of our pods we shall deploy.

This yml file is broken down into two different parts the Deployment and the service. Ideally this should be two different files as they are different micro-services.
### Deploying our application
To deply our application, we need to navigate to where we wrote our YAML file and run the following command `kubectl apply -f <name_of_file>.yaml` to see the status of our deployment  we input the following command `kubectl get pods`

We get the following output 
```sh
NAME                       READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
bb-demo-556d6cd95f-924pj   1/1     Running   0          6s
```
We can get our deployments by typing the following command `kubectl get deployments`
From issuing this command, we get the following output
```sh
NAME      READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
bb-demo   1/1     1            1           12m
```
To get the services running we type `kubectl get services`, from this command we get the following output
```sh
NAME            TYPE        CLUSTER-IP      EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)          AGE
bb-entrypoint   NodePort    10.96.153.156   <none>        3000:30001/TCP   17m
kubernetes      ClusterIP   10.96.0.1       <none>        443/TCP          4h10m
```

#### Side note
In some occasions before the container start when you try to run `kubectl get pods` , you may get the following output
```sh
NAME                       READY   STATUS              RESTARTS   AGE
bb-demo-755fd848c8-jzz5f   0/1     ContainerCreating   0          5s
```
If you run into this chill as the K8s background processes finish running. This status is not defined in the documentation as of when this article was written.
### Case 2: Webapplication using mongo-db