>**Disclaimer:**  
The views and opinions expressed in this article are my own and do not necessarily reflect those of my employer or the broader cybersecurity industry.


This week marked three years since I got my first cybersecurity job (how I got it is a story for another day). This was not easy as it was a startup with basically no structure, shoes to step in, or anybody to learn from, apart from a collection of generic ISMS that was done by a consultant and the Data Protection Act to guide on privacy. 
Three years later, I have made some interesting decisions, some of them outrightly radical. What makes me sleep is that all the decisions I made were well calculated, and as much as they hurt, they paid off. 
### Specialization over generalization
It is good to know stuff, but what exactly are you known for? For example, Tata, I know Tata because of the vehicles they manufacture, but if you decompose the conglomerate, you will realize that Tata has outreaches in tech, real estate, finance, and the list continues. It is good to learn network security, application security, cloud security, IoT, malware development, and so on, but you will never get to mastery. Do not get me wrong, you should have an idea about the multiple fields in cybersecurity, after that, you can specialize in what you like. This path makes it possible for you to get opportunities in the Kenyan market (because cyber security has not fully matured yet to cater for specialization), this makes you a subject matter expert, and also makes cyber security enjoyable in the long run since it contributes to fewer chances of getting burnt out.
### Learn to at least read code
Most fields in cybersecurity require some programming knowledge; you will not necessarily write code, but it is important to know how to read code. Scripting knowledge also helps in automating boring and repetitive tasks (hello SOC), which makes it possible to perform your duties. Understanding code also gets you some professional respect among software developers if you work in application security, since you can resonate with them and break down cybersecurity concepts in ways that they understand. A shell script cut my time for log reporting by about 75%.
### Community is key
Iron sharpens Iron, you should surround yourself with like-minded people, this makes you learn more from your peers and opens you up to opportunities in the field. In Kenya, our predecessors in the industry have set up communities in different cybersecurity domains. You should make an intention to attend some of the events, you get to learn a thing or two. Discord and X (formerly Twitter) are good as they expose you to people on a global scale, which makes it easier for you to learn faster and perfect your craft.
Finally, just like alcohol, cybersecurity is best done with moderation, which ensures that the field is interesting for you. It is advisable to get a hobby or a social life to avoid being burnt out and to appreciate what the world has to offer. You can start by going to the AfricaHackon events and visiting the HTB Kenya Discord server. 
### Never stop learning
Thanks to researchers and the world, cybersecurity often has new frontiers to venture into and practices mature based on events. There is so much material online and offline on your favorite cybersecurity domains that will make you a better person. Lastly, do not equate certifications with knowledge. You may get a certification, but what matters is the knowledge gained from the course material. Certifications are good for career progression (take this opinion with a pinch of salt.)

These are a few lessons I’ve learned the hard way over three years. I’m still learning—and so should you. Whether you're starting out or switching tracks, I hope this gives you a clearer path forward in cybersecurity.